OSBridge Proposal
=================

Title: Hacking the DevOps Talent Pipeline

Track: Cooking? or culture

Session type: Short form

Audience level: Beginner

Excerpt: The Open Source Lab at Oregon State University constantly struggles
to produce enough students to fulfill companies' recruiting demands. As part
of our recent transition into the school of computer science at OSU, we've
started a DevOps training program. We're teaching open source systems
administration and software development skills to all interested students,
regardless of experience level.  This talk will discuss what we've done, our
results, and what you can learn from our experiences. 

Description: The Open Source Lab at Oregon State University hasn't been able
to produce enough students to fulfill companies' recruiting demands. As part
of our recent transition from network services to being part of the school of
electrical engineering and computer science, we've started a DevOps training
program for all interested students. This talk will discuss how we did it and
what you can learn from our experiences.  

The program, called DevOps Bootcamp, has been founded and primarily organized
by student employees of the OSL, under the supervision of fulltime developers
and systems administrators. Its content and format were inspired by the
Portland State University Computer Action Team's brain dump training program,
but customized to be appropriate for less experienced students as an
extracurricular activity. 

Tags: devops, teaching, training, university, students, open source, oregon
state, osuosl, open source lab

Speaking Experience

Emily is the president of the OSU Linux Users Group and frequently presents at
its meetings, and is also the founder of DevOps Bootcamp and a veteran
participant at OSU's Beaver BarCamp unconference. The videos from DevOps
Bootcamp are available on the OSL's youtube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/user/OSUOpenSourceLab. Emily will be presenting about
lessons from DevOps Bootcamp at Linux Fest Northwest in April 2014 (slides
will be available after the presentation).

Dean is the Public Relations Officer of the OSU LUG, and has taught
introductory web development both at LUG and for Bootcamp. 

Note to Organizers: 

(Is there anything else we should know about the room requirements or plans
for your talk? E.g. you will be tapdancing, throwing broccoli into the
audience, and need to rehearse beforehand.)
